Add documentation on KBOSS (#664)
apache/cloudstack-documentation: source/adminguide/kboss_plugin.rst

   to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
   "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
   with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
   software distributed under the License is distributed on an
   "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
   KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
   specific language governing permissions and limitations
   under the License.

.. _KBOSS Backup and Recovery Plugin:

KBOSS Backup and Recovery Plugin
================================

About the KBOSS Backup and Recovery Plugin
------------------------------------------

The KVM Backup on Secondary Storage Backup and Recovery Plugin provider was designed to provide a complete B&R experience for KVM. It uses already validated methods
to create incremental backups of VMs. Its main characteristics are:
   - Full or incremental backups, configured by the user. 
   - Support for backup compression.
   - Support for backup validation.
   - Support for "quick restore", inspired by Veeam's Instant Recovery.

>    - Incremental disk-only VM snapshot compatible (see :ref:`Disk-only-File-based-Storage-Instance-Snapshots-on-KVM`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Compatible with incremental disk-only VM snapshots (see :ref:`Disk-only-File-based-Storage-Instance-Snapshots-on-KVM`).
```

A little rewording. I think it reads better this way.

   - Backups are stored in the secondary storage.

While by default the backups are stored in any secondary storage available, sharing the same space with templates, ISOs and snapshots, 

> using the :ref:`Direct resources to a specific secondary storage` feature, it is possible to create backup-exclusive secondary storages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the backups are stored in any secondary storage available, sharing the same space with templates, ISOs and snapshots. 
However, it is possible to create backup-exclusive secondary storages using the :ref:`Direct resources to a specific secondary storage` feature.
```

> Currently, only backup of VMs from the NFS, File-based Shared Mountpoint and Local Storage based Primary Storage are supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, only the backup of VMs consuming NFS, File-based Shared Mountpoint, and/or Local Storage is supported.
```

> Since the KBOSS plugin is fully implemented by ACS, and does not depend on any outside provider, the **importBackupOffering** API is not used. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the KBOSS plugin is fully implemented by ACS, and does not depend on any external provider, the **importBackupOffering** API is not used. 
```

Instead, use the **createBackupOffering**, which allows users to configure KBOSS features they want to use. These backup offerings are then 

> assigned and used with KVM instances to perform support B&R actions and operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, the **createBackupOffering** is used to allow users to configure KBOSS features they want. These backup offerings can then 
be assigned to KVM instances to perform B&R actions and operations.
```

Using the KBOSS Backup and Recovery Plugin
------------------------------------------

> To use the KBOSS Backup and Recovery Plugin, the Backup and Recovery framework needs to be enabled first. Then the backup plugin 'kboss' needs to be enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the KBOSS Backup and Recovery Plugin, the Backup and Recovery framework needs to be enabled first. Then, 'kboss' needs to be configured as the backup provider
```

on either the global or zone settings. 

================================= ========================
Configuration                     Value
================================= ========================
backup.framework.enabled          true
backup.framework.provider.plugin  kboss
================================= ========================

> Once the above two configurations are set, restart the cloudstack-management service. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the two configurations above are set, restart the cloudstack-management service. 
```

> After, we can create the first backup offering. Navigate to the Service Offerings -> Backup Offerings tab. Click on 'Create Backup Offering' and fill the form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

After enabling the plugin, we can create the first backup offering. Navigate to the Service Offerings -> Backup Offerings tab, click on 'Create Backup Offering', and fill the wizard.
```

I would leave an extra line here.

=============================== ========================
Field                           Value
=============================== ========================
Name                            A suitable name to represent the Backup Offering.
Description                     A suitable description to represent the Backup Offering.

> Zone                            Zone UUID for the backup offering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Zone                            Zone in which this backup offering will be available.
```

> Allow User driven backups       Whether to allow backups from the ACS API. If this value is false, you will not be able to create backups using KBOSS. **It must be set as true**.

Reviewer: If you are a root admin, you're able to create backups even if this was set to false, right?

Author: No.

<img width="1578" height="463" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7c761151-e905-40fc-af17-c24ade6297eb" />

Public                          Whether the offering is public or dedicated to a domain.
Domain                          Domain to dedicate the offering, only shown when 'Public' is false.
Compress                        Whether the backups should be compressed after creation.
Compression library             Which compression library to use, only shown when 'Compress' is true.
Validate                        Whether to validate backups after creation.
Validation steps                Which validation steps should be executed.
Allow extract file              Whether backups created with this offering should allow file extraction. This feature will be implemented in a future version.
Allow quick restore             Whether backups created with this offering should allow quick restore. 
Backup chain size               The backup chain size of the incremental backups. This value overwrites what is set in `backup.chain.size`.
=============================== ========================

.. image:: /_static/images/create-backup-offering.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: NAS Backup repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :alt: KBOSS backup offering creation wizard
```

After this has been done, you can go to any Instance view and assign the backup offering to it. Then, there will be buttons available for either ad-hoc

> backup or a scheduled backup of the VM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

After creating the backup offering, you can assign it to any Instance and start to perform ad-hoc backups or schedule them.
```

Can we leave an extra line here?

Quiesce (Filesystem Freeze and Thaw)
------------------------------------

> Users can set quiesce to true while creating a backup or a backup schedule.
> When a backup is initiated with quiesce enabled, CloudStack uses QEMU guest agent
> to freeze the filesystem before starting backup. This operation flushes all dirty
> filesystem buffers to disk and quiesces new writes. The filesystem is then thawed
> immediately after the backup process starts, keeping the freezing window very short.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can set quiesce to true while creating a backup or a backup schedule.
When a backup is initiated with quiesce enabled, CloudStack uses the QEMU guest agent
to freeze the filesystem before starting the backup. This operation flushes all dirty
filesystem buffers to disk and quiesces new writes. The filesystem is then thawed
immediately after the backup process starts, keeping the freezing window very short.

```

|NASB&R-quiesceInstance.png|

This enhancement brings the KBOSS backup plugin from crash-consistent backups closer to

> application-consistent backups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature makes the KBOSS backups closer to application-consistent backups, rather than crash-consistent backups.
```

The original sentence was a little confusing for me. Is this what you intended to say? @JoaoJandre

Points to note:

> #. The feature requires Qemu Guest Agent to be installed and running on the guest instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. The feature requires QEMU Guest Agent to be installed and running on the guest instance.
```

#. This method does not capture the memory state of the guest. Any data held in application memory
   that hasn’t been flushed to disk prior to the filesystem freeze will not be captured.
#. For fully application-consistent backups, guest applications must implement pre-freeze hooks
   to flush their internal state to disk before the filesystem is frozen.

> Backup Chain Management

Reviewer: It may be also interesting to mention the chain separation by schedule here.

-----------------------

> The size of the incremental backup chain is determined by the `backup.chain.size` zone-wide configuration; furthermore, it may be overwritten on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The size of the incremental backup chain is determined by the `backup.chain.size` zone-wide configuration; furthermore, it may be overridden on the
```

I think it's override here instead of overwrite.

offering level. Once the backup chain reaches the configured size, the next backup will be a full backup and a new chain will start.

If users wish to finalize the backup chain early, the **finishBackupChain** API may be used. It is also available through the VM instance interface on the GUI.

> If the VM is in the `BackupError` state, ACS will try to normalize it. Most times ACS is able to normalize it, however, the VM may be unable to be recovered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, this API can also be used when the VM is in the `BackupError` state to normalize it. Most times ACS is able to normalize it; however, the VM may be unable to be recovered
```

> automatically for a number of reasons, for example if the storage is unavailable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
automatically for a number of reasons, such as the storage being unavailable.
```

Isolated backups
----------------

> If you want to create a backup that does not depend on any backup chain, you may inform the `isolated` flag when creating a backup, or a backup schedule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to create a backup that does not depend on, nor affects any backup chain, you may inform the `isolated` flag when creating a backup, or a backup schedule.
```

When set, the created backup will be a full backup, with no dependencies on other backups, and no future backups will depend on it.

Quick restore
-------------

If the backup was created using an offering with `allowQuickRestore` set, the user will be able to restore it using the `quickRestore` flag.
When this is done, CloudStack creates new deltas on primary storage that have the backup as their backing files, while the backups are still on the 

> secondary storage. Then, the VM is automatically started and the volume consolidation process starts. While this is done, the VM is already available to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this is done, CloudStack creates new deltas on primary storage that have the backup on secondary storage as their backing files. Then, the VM is automatically started and the volume consolidation process starts. During consolidation, the VM is already available to use.
```

     - 10
   * - `backup.compression.max.job.retries`
     - Maximum number of attempts for executing compression jobs
     - 2
   * - `backup.compression.retry.interval`
     - Interval, in minutes, between attempts to run compression jobs
     - 60
   * - `backup.compression.timeout`
     - Timeout, in seconds, for running compression jobs
     - 28800
   * - `backup.compression.minimum.free.storage`
     - Minimum required available storage to start the backup compression process. 
       This setting accepts a real number that is multiplied by the total size of the backup to determine the necessary available space.
       By default, the storage must have the same amount of available space as the space occupied by the backup. This is checked by the host
       when trying to start the process. 
     - 1
   * - `backup.compression.coroutines`
     - Number of coroutines used for the compression process, each coroutine has its own thread
     - 1
   * - `backup.compression.rate.limit`
     - Compression rate limit, in MB/s. Values less than 1 disable the limit
     - 0
   

> To check information about compression jobs, the **listBackupServiceJobs** API may be added.

Author: ```suggestion
To check information about compression jobs, the **listBackupServiceJobs** API may be used.
```

To check information about compression jobs, the **listBackupServiceJobs** API may be added.

Validation
----------

The backup validation process is executed asynchronously after the backup is created, for VMs using backup offerings that support it. To perform the validation, a temporary dummy
VM is created using the backup being validated and a few configurable validation steps are executed. After the first successful validation, a Hash of the backup is taken,

> a new Hash is taken periodically and compared with the original to make sure the backup is still valid. Furthermore, most backup validation steps are dependant on the guest VM having

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The backup validation process is executed asynchronously after the backup is created, for VMs using backup offerings that support it. Most backup validation steps are dependant on the guest VM having the QEMU Guest Agent installed and configured to run on start. To perform the validation, a temporary dummy
VM is created using the backup being validated and a few configurable validation steps are executed. After the first successful validation, a Hash of the backup is taken.
A new Hash is taken periodically and compared with the original to make sure the backup is still valid.
```

> Qemu Guest Agent installed and configured to run on start. There are three currently available validation steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

There are three validation steps that can be configured currently:
```

.. list-table:: Validation steps
   :widths: 20 60 20
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Step
     - Description

>      - Needs Qemu Gest Agent?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Needs QEMU Guest Agent?
```

   * - `wait_for_boot`
     - Waits during a configurable timeout for the validation VM to boot.
     - Yes
   * - `execute_command`

>      - Executes a configurable command inside the VM using Qemu Guest Agent, compares the result with a configurable expected result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Executes a configurable command inside the VM using the QEMU Guest Agent, and compares the result with a configurable expected result.
```

     - `10`
     - Zone   
   * - `backup.validation.max.concurrent.operations.per.host` 
     - Maximum number of validation jobs that can be executed at the same time on each host. Values lower than 1 disable the limit.         
     - `1` 
     - Cluster
   * - `backup.validation.boot.default.timeout`     
     - Default timeout, in seconds, for the boot validation step      
     - `240`         
     - Account
   * - `backup.validation.script.default.timeout`   
     - Default timeout, in seconds, for the script validation step    
     - `60`
     - Account
   * - `backup.validation.screenshot.default.wait`  
     - Default waiting time, in seconds, before executing the VM screenshot     
     - `60`
     - Account
   * - `backup.validation.end.chain.on.fail`        
     - If true, ends the current backup chain if backup validation fails and the backup belongs to that chain.          
     - `true`        
     - Account
   * - `enforce.resource.limit.on.backup.validation.vm`       
     - If true, the creation of validation VMs is bound by the account/domain resource limits. 
     - `false` 
     - Account

> To configure the validation steps on a VM level, new VM settings were created. Most of them are available to end-users by default, except the timeouts. The availability of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow configuring the validation steps on a VM basis, new VM settings were created. Most of them are available to end-users by default, except the timeouts. The availability of
```

> these settings to User accounts may be configured by the `user.vm.readonly.details` global configuration. It is expected that users use these settings to configure the validation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
these settings to User accounts may be configured by the `user.vm.readonly.details` global configuration. It is expected that users utilize these settings to configure the validation
```

> process, especially the `execute_command` step, which if not configured using the VM settings will not run. Below is a table of the VM settings pertaining to the backup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
process, especially the `execute_command` step, which will not run when not configured using the VM settings. Below, is a table of the VM settings pertaining to the backup
```

validation process:

.. list-table:: Validation VM settings
   :widths: 20 80
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Setting
     - Description
   * - `backupValidationCommand`

>      - Command to be executed during the command execution step. The step will not run if this configuration does not have a value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Command to be executed during the execute_command step. The step will not run if this configuration does not have a value
```

   * - `backupValidationCommandArguments`

>      - Arguments to be passed to the command executed during the command execution step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Arguments to be passed to the command executed during the execute_command step
```

   * - `backupValidationCommandExpectedResult`

>      - Expected result of the command execution, coded in Base64. If not provided, the process exit code will be checked for value `0`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Expected output of the command's execution, coded in Base64. If not provided, the process exit code will be checked for value `0`
```

   * - `backupValidationCommandTimeout`

>      - Timeout for the command executed during the command execution step. Overrides the global configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Timeout for the command executed during the execute_command step. Overrides the global configuration
```

   * - `backupValidationScreenshotWait`
     - Waiting time before executing the screenshot during the screenshot step. Overrides the global configuration
   * - `backupValidationBootTimeout`
     - Timeout for the VM boot. Overrides the global configuration

> To check information about validation jobs, the **listBackupServiceJobs** API may be added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow checking the existing validation jobs, the **listBackupServiceJobs** API may be added in the future.
```

> To check information about validation jobs, the **listBackupServiceJobs** API may be added.

Author: ```suggestion
To check information about validation jobs, the **listBackupServiceJobs** API may be used.
```
